ceph: Adding support for admission controllers (#5045)
rook/rook: Documentation/admission-controller-usage.md

---
title: Admission Controller
weight: 2030
indent: true
---

# Admission Controller

An admission controller intercepts requests to the Kubernetes API server prior to persistence of the object, but after the request is authenticated and authorized.

Enabling the Rook admission controller is recommended to provide an additional level of validation that Rook is configured correctly with the custom resource (CR) settings.

## Quick Start 

To deploy the Rook admission controllers we have a helper script that will automate the configuration.

This script will help us achieve the following tasks
1. Creates self-signed certificate.
1. Creates a CSR for the certificate and gets it approved from the kubernetes cluster.

> 1. Stores these certificates as a secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Stores these certificates as a Kubernetes Secret.
```

1. Creates a service account, clusterrole and clusterrolebindings for running the webhook server with minimal priviledges.
1. Creates ValidatingWebhookConfig and fills the CA bundle with the appropriate value from the cluster.

> Run the following commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following commands:
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```console
```

kubectl create -f examples/kubernetes/ceph/common.yaml
cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/admission-controller/deploy.sh
```

> Now that the secrets have been deployed, we can deploy the operator and create a cluster using the following commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the Secrets have been deployed, we can deploy the operator and create a cluster using the following commands:
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```console
```

kubectl create -f operator.yaml
```

> At this point the operator will start the admission controller deployment automatically and the webhook will start intercepting requests for Rook resources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point the operator will start the admission controller Deployment automatically and the Webhook will start intercepting requests for Rook resources. 
```

> ## Certificate Management

Reviewer 3: Why not just use a `cert-manager`? rather than creating a certificate using shell script, we can create a certificate using `cert-manager` and add `cert-manager.io/inject-ca-from` annotation in `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration`

Author: @prksu I am not very well versed with the usage of cert-manager. Can you expand upon it and provide any links ?

Reviewer 3: we can create the certificate like this
```yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1alpha2
kind: Issuer
metadata:
  name: selfsigned-issuer
  namespace: system
spec:
  selfSigned: {}
---
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1alpha2
kind: Certificate
metadata:
  name: serving-cert
  namespace: system
spec:
  dnsNames:
  - $(SERVICE_NAME).$(SERVICE_NAMESPACE).svc
  - $(SERVICE_NAME).$(SERVICE_NAMESPACE).svc.cluster.local
  issuerRef:
    kind: Issuer
    name: selfsigned-issuer
  secretName: webhook-server-cert
```

and the `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` will looks like

```yaml
apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: ValidatingWebhookConfiguration
metadata:
  name: demo-webhook
  annotations:
    cert-manager.io/inject-ca-from: $(CERTIFICATE_NAMESPACE)/$(CERTIFICATE_NAME)
webhooks:
  - name: webhook-server.webhook-demo.svc
    clientConfig:
      service:
        name: webhook-server
        namespace: rook-ceph
        path: "/validate"
      caBundle: Cg==
    rules:
      - operations: [ "CREATE" ]
        apiGroups: [""]
        apiVersions: ["v1"]
        resources: ["pods"]
```

the `cert-manager` will automatically replace `webhooks.clientConfig.caBundle` with appropriate `certificate`

ref:
https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/selfsigned/
https://cert-manager.io/docs/concepts/ca-injector/

The script file creates a self signed kubernetes approved certificate and deploys it as a secret onto the cluster. It is mandatory that the secret is named "rook-admission-controller" as rook would try to detect a secret with such name before starting the admission controller servers. 

> In the case of deploying from scratch, the script needs to be executed once without any modification and certificates will be automatically created and deployed as a secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of deploying from scratch, the script needs to be executed once without any modification, and certificates will be automatically created and deployed as a Secret.
```

> The above approach of using self signed certificates is discouraged as it would be the job of the owner to maintain the certificates. The recommended approach would be to use a proper certificate manager and get signed certificates from a known Certificate authority. Once these are available,create the secrets using the following command 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above approach of using self signed certificates is discouraged as it would be the job of the owner to maintain the certificates. The recommended approach would be to use a proper certificate manager and get signed certificates from a known Certificate Authority. Once these are available, create the secrets using the following command 
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```console
```

Reviewer 2: Let's keep it a single line too, that'd be easier to copy and paste

Reviewer: Nit: `... from a known certificate authority.` -- certificate does not need to be capitalized.

> The above approach of using self signed certificates is discouraged as it would be the job of the owner to maintain the certificates. The recommended approach would be to use a proper certificate manager and get signed certificates from a known Certificate Authority. Once these are available,create the secrets using the following command 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The above approach of using self-signed certificates is discouraged as it would be the job of the owner to maintain the certificates. The recommended approach would be to use a proper certificate manager and get signed certificates from a known Certificate Authority. Once these are available, create the secrets using the following command:
```

kubectl create secret generic rook-admission-controller \
        --from-file=key.pem=${PRIVATE_KEY_NAME}.pem \
        --from-file=cert.pem=${PUBLIC_KEY_NAME}.pem
```

> Once the secrets are in the cluster, we can modify the parameter `INSTALL_SELF_SIGNED_CERT` to `false` and execute these scripts to deploy the components. This modification is required only when secrets are created but the components (validatingwebhookconfig, RBAC) are yet to be deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Secrets are in the cluster, we can modify the parameter `INSTALL_SELF_SIGNED_CERT` to `false` and execute these scripts to deploy the components. This modification is required only when Secrets are created but the components (ValidatingWebhookConfig, RBAC) are yet to be deployed.
```

---
title: Admission Controller
weight: 2030
indent: true
---

# Admission Controller

> An admission controller is a piece of code that intercepts requests to the Kubernetes API server prior to persistence of the object, but after the request is authenticated and authorized

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An admission controller intercepts requests to the Kubernetes API server prior to persistence of the object, but after the request is authenticated and authorized.
```

 There are two special controllers: MutatingAdmissionWebhook and ValidatingAdmissionWebhook.
 
 Mutating controllers may modify the objects they admit but validation controllers are only allowed to validate requests.

> Currently, user can manipulate Custom Resource specs with any values which may result in Rook not functioning as expected. The present validation method in Kubernetes is the OpenAPI schema validation which can be used for basic validations like checking type of data, providing a range for the values etc but anything more complex (checking resource availability, network status, error handling) would not be possible under this scenario.

Reviewer 4: This is a better paragraph for a design document, but I think better to remove it for the end user docs.

> An user with complex validation requirements for resources can benefit greatly from the use of admission controllers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Enabling the Rook admission controller is recommended to provide an additional level of validation that Rook is configured correctly with the custom resource (CR) settings.
```

## Quick Start 

To deploy the Rook admission controllers we have a helper script that will automate the configuration.

This script will help us achieve the following tasks
1. Creates self-signed certificate.
1. Creates a CSR for the certificate and gets it approved from the kubernetes cluster.

> 1.  Stores these certificates as a secret.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Stores these certificates as a secret.
```

1. Creates a service account, clusterrole and clusterrolebindings for running the webhook server with minimal priviledges.
1. Creates ValidatingWebhookConfig and fills the CA bundle with the appropriate value from the cluster.

Run the following commands
```
kubectl create -f examples/kubernetes/ceph/common.yaml
examples/kubernetes/ceph/admission-controller/deploy.sh
```
Now that the secrets have been deployed, we can deploy the operator and create a cluster using the following commands
```
kubectl create -f operator.yaml
```

At this point the operator will start the admission controller deployment automatically and the webhook will start intercepting requests for Rook resources. 

## Certificate Management

> The script file does the job of creating a self signed kubernetes approved certificate and deploys it as a secret onto the cluster. It is mandatory that the secret is named "rook-admission-controller" as rook would try to detect a secret with such name before starting the admission controller servers. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The script file creates a self signed kubernetes approved certificate and deploys it as a secret onto the cluster. It is mandatory that the secret is named "rook-admission-controller" as rook would try to detect a secret with such name before starting the admission controller servers. 
```

> The above approach of using self signed certificates is discouraged as it would be the job of the owner to maintain the certificates. The recommended approach would be to use a proper certificate manager and get signed certificates from a known Certificate authority. Once these are available, we have to create the secrets using the following command 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The above approach of using self signed certificates is discouraged as it would be the job of the owner to maintain the certificates. The recommended approach would be to use a proper certificate manager and get signed certificates from a known Certificate authority. Once these are available, create the secrets using the following command 
```

```
kubectl create secret generic rook-admission-controller \
        --from-file=key.pem=${PRIVATE_KEY_NAME}.pem \
        --from-file=cert.pem=${PUBLIC_KEY_NAME}.pem
```

> Once the secrets are in the cluster, we can modify the parameter `INSTALL_SELF_SIGNED_CERT` to `false` and execute these scripts to deploy the components. 

Reviewer 4: If the self-signed cert is already created, they won't need to modify the script, right? Should we just tell them to restart the admission controller pod to pick it up? Or do they have to run the script again?

> # Admission Controller

Author: @travisn  Please review this documentation

> # Admission Controller

Author: Added

> 

Reviewer 4: After the header, how about a sentence or two that describes what an admission controller is and why we recommend they configure it.

Author: Added a short description.

> ## Requirements

Reviewer 4: Let's remove the Requirements section. I think this info will be useful later in the doc. I'll comment separately on that.

Author: Removed

1. Webhook server which will validate the requests
2. TLS Secrets
3. ValidatingWebhookConfig/MutatingWebhookConfig
4. RBAC Components 

The first component is integrated with Rook itself. Last three requirements are given in deploy.sh script file. 

## Quick Start 

> For deploying admission controllers with rook we have the script file deploy.sh (examples/kubernetes/ceph/admission-controller). 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To deploy the Rook admission controllers we have a helper script that will automate the configuration.
```

Reviewer 4: After this line, add a few bullet points that describe what the script will do. (This is similar to the requirements section above that I suggested to remove.) For example:
- Creates a Webhook server 
- Generates a self-signed certificate for the server and stores it in a secret
- Creates the necessary RBAC components, including a ValidatingWebhookConfig
- Creates a service account so the Webhook server will run with minimal privileges

Author: Added

Run the following commands
```

> kubectl create -f common.yaml

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
kubectl create -f examples/kubernetes/ceph/common.yaml
examples/kubernetes/ceph/admission-controller/deploy.sh
```

Author: Added.

./deploy.sh
```
Now that the secrets have been deployed, we can deploy the operator and create a cluster using the following commands
```
kubectl create -f operator.yaml
```

> At this point all the above requirements have been fulfilled and the webhook can start intercepting requests for rook resources.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
At this point the operator will start the admission controller deployment automatically and the webhook will start intercepting requests for Rook resources. 

The operator will automatically manage upgrades of the admission controller.
```

> ## ValidatingWebhookConfig

Reviewer 4: The admin doesn't need this section in the docs. This is an implementation detail.

Author: Removed

The ValidatingWebhookConfig decides what type of requests to intercept and send to a service. 

Below is an excerpt of what a ValidatingWebhookConfig looks like 

```
apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: ValidatingWebhookConfiguration
metadata:
  name: demo-webhook
webhooks:
  - name: webhook-server.webhook-demo.svc
    clientConfig:
      service:
        name: webhook-server 
        namespace: rook-ceph
        path: "/validate" ---> 1
      caBundle: ${CA_PEM_B64} ---> 2
    rules:
      - operations: [ "CREATE" ] ---> 3 
        apiGroups: [""] ---> 4
        apiVersions: ["v1"] ---> 4
        resources: ["pods"] ---> 5
```
1.  What path do we want to send with HTTPs request (/validate, /mutate)
1. A valid base64 encoded CA bundle
1. What kind of operation should it intercept ? (Create, Update, Delete)
1. What api version and group does it belong to ? *Example : ApiVersion = (v1, v1beta) Group version = (rook.ceph.io, admissionregistration.k8s.io)*
1. What resources should it be looking for ? (Pods, Service)

We can add to the above to intercept requests based on our requirements.

> ## Adding Validations

Author: Removed
